[MUSIC PLAYING]
JEREMY: How do computer
programs interact
with the outside world?
Using input and output.
In this dissected
PC hardware here, we
see the input might arrive
when the user presses keys
on the keyboard or
wiggles the mouse
or, perhaps, when the file is
read into memory from the disk.
Outputs are visible to
the external surroundings
of the PC when the program
writes data to the graphics
card to be displayed
on the screen
or, perhaps, where a file is
written back to disk.
Haskell programs use
something called the IO monad
to interact with input/output.
We'll go into more
detail about I/O
and monads later
on in the course.
But for now, we just
need to know two things.
Number one, when a function
is using input or output,
its type must contain
IO. And number two,
the IO monad ensures that
input/output operations
occur in a fixed sequence.
For example, we must check
the red button is pressed
before we launch the missiles.
I'm going to invite you to
look at the next interactive
tutorial, now, which
covers I/O in Haskell.
Our I/O operations
are much more mundane
than launching missiles.
We'll just be writing
strings to the console using
putStrLn  and
reading character
input from the standard terminal
using getLine.
As you do the tutorial,
watch out and see
where the IO type pops up.
Thanks.
[MUSIC PLAYING]